docs: Add Writing Day 2026 docs page and /wtd-oss short link (#471)
Promptless/docs: src/content/docs/docs/getting-started/wtd-oss.mdx

---
title: Writing Day at Write the Docs Portland 2026
subtitle: Ship a real OSS docs PR with pre-vetted issues from Mautic, Vitess, and Helm
description: >-
  Overview of the Promptless Writing Day setup at Write the Docs Portland 2026: pre-vetted "good first issue" docs tasks from Mautic, Vitess, and Helm, plus optional Promptless setup for participants.
slug: docs/getting-started/wtd-oss
sidebar:
  hidden: false
  order: 6
---
import Tip from '@components/fern/Tip.astro';
import Info from '@components/fern/Info.astro';
import Success from '@components/fern/Success.astro';
import Note from '@components/fern/Note.astro';
import WtdSlackJoinButton from '@components/site/WtdSlackJoinButton.astro';

The goal of Writing Day is simple: leave Portland with a real contribution to a well-known open-source project. We've worked with maintainers from Mautic, Vitess, and Helm ahead of time so you can pick up a labeled "good first issue" and ship a PR before the day is over.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

<WtdSlackJoinButton />

```

import Info from '@components/fern/Info.astro';
import Success from '@components/fern/Success.astro';
import Note from '@components/fern/Note.astro';

The goal of Writing Day is simple: leave Portland with a real contribution to a well-known open-source project. We've worked with maintainers from Mautic, Vitess, and Helm ahead of time so you can pick up a labeled "good first issue" and ship a PR before the day is over.

Bring a laptop, pick an issue, ship a PR.

<Tip>
You don't need any prior experience with these projects to contribute. The maintainers have specifically labeled issues that are friendly to first-time contributors.
</Tip>

## The Projects

Each maintainer has a slightly different ask. Skim the one-liners and the maintainer notes below to find a project that fits before you dive in.

### Mautic

**Mautic** is an open-source marketing automation platform — campaigns, email, contact management, and segmentation.

- **Good first issues:** [`mautic/developer-documentation-new`](https://github.com/mautic/developer-documentation-new/issues?q=is%3Aissue+state%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)
- **Contact:** Ayu Adiati (Mautic docs maintainer)

> Ayu's note for participants:

Reviewer: Carried Ayu Adiati's quote about Mautic user vs. dev docs and the version 7.0/7.1 screenshot priorities verbatim from the existing `wtd-writing-day.mdx` blog post into the new docs page.

Source: https://github.com/Promptless/oss-contrib-Promptless-promptless.ai/blob/main/src/content/blog/life-at-promptless/wtd-writing-day.mdx

> The user docs so far is a bit behind with UI screenshots. Most of them are still for version before 5.2. The most important docs to update is version 7.0 and 7.1 (they have the same UI), then 6.0 and 5.2 as some folks are still using these versions as well.
>
> I was focusing in building the guidelines for contributing, so it takes me some time to update them myself bit by bit.
>
> In my own experience, I sometimes found missing instructions or any other features that need to be added and updated while updating the screenshots.
>
> Dev docs is the one that definitely need some love. Folks has been asking for clarity as the contents are outdated. [...]

### Vitess

**Vitess** is a distributed, sharded MySQL — the database technology behind YouTube, Slack, and other large-scale products that have outgrown a single MySQL instance.

- **Good first issues:** [`vitessio/website`](https://github.com/vitessio/website/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22help%20wanted%22%20label%3Adocumentation)
- **Contact:** Matt Lord (Vitess maintainer)

> Matt is also open to broader information-architecture work, not just fixes to individual pages. From his note:

Reviewer: Carried Matt Lord's quote about preferring information-architecture feedback over individual page fixes verbatim from the existing `wtd-writing-day.mdx` blog post.

Source: https://github.com/Promptless/oss-contrib-Promptless-promptless.ai/blob/main/src/content/blog/life-at-promptless/wtd-writing-day.mdx

> Honestly, stepping back would probably be more helpful.
>
> What the website -> docs experience is like for a newcomer and how it could be improved.
>
> Where to start, how to find things, etc. Organization more than content.

If you spot an IA issue while exploring, open a new issue describing what you found. The Vitess team is happy to take PRs for anything.

### Helm

**Helm** is the package manager for Kubernetes — the standard way to install, upgrade, and manage applications on a Kubernetes cluster.

- **Good first issues:** [`helm/helm-www`](https://github.com/helm/helm-www/issues?q=is%3Aissue+state%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)

> Helm currently has six open docs issues labeled as good first issues, including one from 2021 that's been waiting a long time for someone to claim it.

Reviewer: Picked up the "six open docs issues, including one from 2021" line about Helm from the existing `wtd-writing-day.mdx` blog post.

Source: https://github.com/Promptless/oss-contrib-Promptless-promptless.ai/blob/main/src/content/blog/life-at-promptless/wtd-writing-day.mdx

#### Create a GitHub classic personal access token

1. Sign in to GitHub and open [github.com/settings/tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens).
2. Click **Generate new token** and choose **Generate new token (classic)**.
3. Give the token a recognizable name — something like `Promptless – Writing Day 2026` works well.
4. Set an expiration. We recommend a date shortly after the event so the token stays short-lived.
5. Select the scopes you need:

   - **`public_repo`** — required. Lets Promptless push branches and open PRs against public repositories on your behalf. (If you also plan to contribute to private repositories, select the parent **`repo`** scope instead.)
   - **`workflow`** — required if any of the issues you might pick involve changes under `.github/workflows/`. Most docs-only contributions don't need this, but selecting it up front means you won't have to regenerate the token mid-PR if a workflow file does end up changing.

6. Click **Generate token**, then copy the token. GitHub only shows it once.
7. Paste the token into Promptless when it asks for your GitHub credentials during onboarding for the event.

> <Info>

Reviewer: Used GitHub's official PAT documentation to confirm the "Generate new token (classic)" entry point, the "shown only once" copy step, and the recommendation to set an expiration. This shaped the step-by-step PAT walkthrough.

Source: https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens

For the official GitHub guidance, see [Managing your personal access tokens](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens) and [Scopes for OAuth apps](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/scopes-for-oauth-apps).
</Info>

## Help During the Event

> 

Reviewer: Verified scope guidance against GitHub's OAuth scopes reference: `public_repo` for public-repo PRs, `repo` as the broader parent scope for private repos, and `workflow` as required only when changes touch `.github/workflows/`. Drove the recommended-scopes list in the PAT walkthrough.

Source: https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/scopes-for-oauth-apps

   - **`workflow`** — required if any of the issues you might pick involve changes under `.github/workflows/`. Most docs-only contributions don't need this, but selecting it up front means you won't have to regenerate the token mid-PR if a workflow file does end up changing.

6. Click **Generate token**, then copy the token. GitHub only shows it once.
7. Paste the token into Promptless when it asks for your GitHub credentials during onboarding for the event.

<Info>
For the official GitHub guidance, see [Managing your personal access tokens](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens) and [Scopes for OAuth apps](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/scopes-for-oauth-apps).
</Info>

## Help During the Event

If you get stuck on tooling, the scope of an issue, or how to use Promptless during the event, find someone from the Promptless team — we're at Writing Day to help. For broader Promptless support, see [Getting Support](/docs/getting-started/getting-help).

> See you in Portland — drop into the Slack channel so we can coordinate on the day, swap notes, and celebrate merged PRs.

Author: ```suggestion
```

import Success from '@components/fern/Success.astro';
import Note from '@components/fern/Note.astro';
import WtdSlackJoinButton from '@components/site/WtdSlackJoinButton.astro';

The goal of Writing Day is simple: leave Portland with a real contribution to a well-known open-source project. We've worked with maintainers from Mautic, Vitess, and Helm ahead of time so you can pick up a labeled "good first issue" and ship a PR before the day is over.

Bring a laptop, pick an issue, ship a PR.

<WtdSlackJoinButton />

<Tip>
You don't need any prior experience with these projects to contribute. The maintainers have specifically labeled issues that are friendly to first-time contributors.
</Tip>

## The Projects

Each maintainer has a slightly different ask. Skim the one-liners and the maintainer notes below to find a project that fits before you dive in.

### Mautic

**Mautic** is an open-source marketing automation platform — campaigns, email, contact management, and segmentation.

- **Good first issues:** [`mautic/developer-documentation-new`](https://github.com/mautic/developer-documentation-new/issues?q=is%3Aissue+state%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)

> - **Contact:** Ayu Adiati (Mautic docs maintainer)

Author: ```suggestion
```

Ayu's note for participants:

> The user docs so far is a bit behind with UI screenshots. Most of them are still for version before 5.2. The most important docs to update is version 7.0 and 7.1 (they have the same UI), then 6.0 and 5.2 as some folks are still using these versions as well.
>
> I was focusing in building the guidelines for contributing, so it takes me some time to update them myself bit by bit.
>
> In my own experience, I sometimes found missing instructions or any other features that need to be added and updated while updating the screenshots.
>
> Dev docs is the one that definitely need some love. Folks has been asking for clarity as the contents are outdated. [...]

### Vitess

**Vitess** is a distributed, sharded MySQL — the database technology behind YouTube, Slack, and other large-scale products that have outgrown a single MySQL instance.

- **Good first issues:** [`vitessio/website`](https://github.com/vitessio/website/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22help%20wanted%22%20label%3Adocumentation)

> - **Contact:** Matt Lord (Vitess maintainer)

Author: ```suggestion
```

Matt is also open to broader information-architecture work, not just fixes to individual pages. From his note:

> Honestly, stepping back would probably be more helpful.
>
> What the website -> docs experience is like for a newcomer and how it could be improved.
>
> Where to start, how to find things, etc. Organization more than content.

If you spot an IA issue while exploring, open a new issue describing what you found. The Vitess team is happy to take PRs for anything.

### Helm

**Helm** is the package manager for Kubernetes — the standard way to install, upgrade, and manage applications on a Kubernetes cluster.

- **Good first issues:** [`helm/helm-www`](https://github.com/helm/helm-www/issues?q=is%3Aissue+state%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)

Helm currently has six open docs issues labeled as good first issues, including one from 2021 that's been waiting a long time for someone to claim it.

<Note>
We're still adding more projects as docs maintainers get back to us. Check back during the event for the latest list.

> </Note>

Author: ```suggestion
```

## How to Contribute

Pick an issue from one of the projects above, comment to claim it, fork the repo, and open a PR from your fork against the upstream project. Each project has its own contribution guide — read it before you open your PR so you're following the conventions maintainers expect.

### Optional: Use Promptless to Accelerate

<Success title="Free Promptless Access for Writing Day" icon="fa-solid fa-heart">

> We're giving Writing Day participants free access to Promptless for the duration of the event. Use of Promptless is **completely optional** — if you'd rather work in your editor, that's a great way to ship a PR too.

Author: ```suggestion
We're giving Writing Day participants free access to Promptless for the duration of the event. Use of Promptless is **completely optional**—if you want to work in your own editor, or using Claude Code, Codex, or another agent, that's a great way to contribute to open-source too.
```

</Success>

Promptless is the AI agent we build for technical writers. If you'd like to try it on your contribution, Promptless can read the upstream repo and the issue you're working on, draft an update, and open the PR for you.

> If you do use Promptless, set up a GitHub classic personal access token (PAT) before you start. The PAT lets Promptless open the PR from **your** GitHub account, so the contribution is credited to you and not to a bot.

Author: ```suggestion
If you do use Promptless, you can set up a GitHub classic personal access token (PAT) before you start. The PAT lets Promptless open the PR from **your** GitHub account, rather than Promptless's bot, so the contribution is credited to you and not to a bot.
```

#### Create a GitHub classic personal access token

1. Sign in to GitHub and open [github.com/settings/tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens).
2. Click **Generate new token** and choose **Generate new token (classic)**.

> 3. Give the token a recognizable name — something like `Promptless – Writing Day 2026` works well.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Give the token a recognizable name — something like `writing day`.
```

> 4. Set an expiration. We recommend a date shortly after the event so the token stays short-lived.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Set an expiration. We recommend 1 day or 7 days so the token stays short-lived.
```

5. Select the scopes you need:

   - **`public_repo`** — required. Lets Promptless push branches and open PRs against public repositories on your behalf. (If you also plan to contribute to private repositories, select the parent **`repo`** scope instead.)
   - **`workflow`** — required if any of the issues you might pick involve changes under `.github/workflows/`. Most docs-only contributions don't need this, but selecting it up front means you won't have to regenerate the token mid-PR if a workflow file does end up changing.

6. Click **Generate token**, then copy the token. GitHub only shows it once.

> 7. Paste the token into Promptless when it asks for your GitHub credentials during onboarding for the event.

Author: ```suggestion
7. Paste the token into Promptless when opening your first PR from Promptless!
```
